I am a PMRF scholar and pursuing my doctoral studies under the guidance of Dr. Konduri Aditya hosted by the Department of Computational and Data Sciences, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, India. My goal is to become a professor in a top research university to understand and contribute to turbulence theory and combustion and use the understanding to solve real-life problems. 
My motivation to pursue turbulence as a research topic stemmed from realizing the inexplicable and fundamental nature of the Navier-Stokes Equations in my undergraduate studies. This led me to enroll in the M.S. program in the Department of Mechanical Engineering at the Indian Institute of Technology Madras (IIT Madras). As part of my M.S. program, I worked in the Fluid Systems Laboratory under the supervision of Dr. Kameswarao Anupindi. The work focused on improving lift in STOL/VTOL aircraft using upper-surface blowing by studying turbulent planar offset jets. I have compared the performance of Reynolds Averaged Navier-Stokes (RANS) models with Large Eddy Simulation (LES) in the simulation of such flow and studied turbulent kinetic energy budget for different flow regimes to better understand the turbulence transport, production and dissipation. Such flow is appealing because of the complex flow characteristics it exhibits, and it is a great problem to undertake for the advancement of turbulence theory and the capability of turbulence prediction. The study was then extended to understand the effect of ventilation on turbulence suppression, heat transfer, and unsteady characteristics of offset jet and an attempt was made to quantify the effect. My MS research has culminated in two international journal articles and one international conference paper. As a Research Engineer at Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) Research, where I worked on creating a framework for the facilitation of CFD and FEA analysis of cellular network provider assets in the face of harsh weather for its life-cycle management, failure prediction, and design optimization in a digital twin setting. I have also explored topics such as logistic system simulation using an in-house agent-based modeling library, vehicle route optimization, transfer entropy, and other statistical methods for understanding information propagation in a network, primarily using Python. During my research at IIT Madras and TCS Research, I was fortunate to be exposed to a wide range of ideas and as a result, I could develop my programming, modeling, and analytical skills. To enrich my knowledge in fluid dynamics and turbulence I have enrolled in courses such as Turbulence modeling, computational fluid flow and heat transfer, and parallel scientific computing to name a few, which I feel will be beneficial for my doctoral studies. I have also done a course project on the parallel implementation of three gradient descent methods using MPI implementation in C++. I have experience in working with CFD software like OpenFOAM and ANSYS Fluent and can adapt to other CFD tools as well. 
I intend to work on high-fidelity simulation of complex turbulent combustion systems.  The topic of sustainable combustion intrigues me as the research directly addresses one of the major challenges faced by mankind i.e. dealing with climate change. I find identification and exploiting characteristic features of combustion dynamics using data-driven methods exciting, as previously unknown insights can be drawn from them which will aid immensely to further turbulence combustion research as well as contribute to tackling climate change. I aim to study the effect of highly strained combustion which has the prospect of reducing emissions and developing efficient and effective control mechanisms. Currently, I am undertaking LES simulations of cavity-stabilized Trapped Vortex Combustors (TVC) and intend to characterize the effect of hydrogen enrichment of natural gas fuel. I believe that my experience in LES, turbulence modeling, and high-performance computing will help me excel in my doctoral research and contribute to turbulence theory and turbulent combustion dynamics.